---
layout: post
title: "[6m English] Does Your Cv Shine?"
date: 2015-10-20T10:06:47+07:00
tag: [6m english, personal, learning]
---
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K1I365lGaUE>

**Rob**: Hello, I'm Rob. Welcome to 6 Minute English. With me in the
studio today is Neil. Hello, Neil!

**Neil**: Hello there, Rob!

**Rob**: Now I bet you have an impressive CV, Neil. **CV** is short for
curriculum vitae - that's a Latin expression we use for the document in
which people list their work history, education, interests and
abilities. In other parts of the English-speaking world it's called a
resume. Now, Neil, I know you are a very good teacher and producer, but
does your CV actually shine?

**Neil**: Well, I hope it's good enough to impress hiring managers. But
it's a challenge to prove on a piece of paper or online document that
you're really better than the other people who are competing for the
same position.

**Rob**: Today we're talking about CVs and you'll learn some words
related to this topic, which will esecially interest jobseekers - that's
what we call people looking for work.

**Neil**: Yes, and jobseekers have to worry about having an impressive
CV so they get that call for a job interview.

**Rob**: Yes, the CV is just the beginning. And, as you mentioned job
interviews, I'll ask you a question all about this. According to a
recent survey, managers decide quite quickly if they're going to really
consider giving a candidate a job or not. So, when you go for a job
interview how long do you have, on average, to make a good enough
impression for an employer to hire you? Do you have...

a) Less than 3 miniutes

b) Less than 5 minutes

c) Less than 10 minutes

**Neil**: Well, i think it's probably quite short so I'm going to go
for: (b) 5 minutes.

**Rob**: Well, you'll have the correct answer - the result of this
survey - at the end of the programme. But people have done all sorts of
unusual things to reach the interview level. One of them is Briton
Daniel Conway, who went from posing shirtless in the street with the
phrase "employ me" written on his chest to uploading a video on social
media asking to be hired.

**Neil**: Ah, this video went viral - it means became popular very
quickly. In it his daughter appears next to the phrase "give my dad a
job".

**Rob**: Yes. Daniel Conway tells us about his experience looking for
work. Which word does he use when he says he wanted to be noticed?

**Daniel Conway, former jobseeker:**

_I just thought as a young naive kid that I would kind of walk into a
job, but the truth is, you know, there are a lot of good people out
there who got just a great skill and I realised at that point that
you're got **to stand out** and **get your strengths across.**_

**Neil**: He uses the phrasal verb to stand out - it means to be more
than others in the same group.

**Rob**: Dan Conway uses another phrasal verb: **get your strengths
across** - to get something across means to make something clear. In
this case he wants the employer to understand how good he is as a
potential employee, his strengths and his good qualities.

**Neil**: And did he get a job?

**Rob**: Well, yes, he did. And I'm glad to say that after four years
this 29-year-old man got a job marketing vitamins!

**Neil**: Well, we can say that he was good at marketing himself.

**Rob**: Yes, we can. Well, he was bold and courageous in his attempts
to catch potential employers' attention. He showed a quality described
by career coach Corinne Mills. Listen to what she says and tell me: what
is the quality jobseekers have to show for sure.

**Corinne Mills, MD - Personal Career Management:**

_You've got to be **confident**! mean, if you are not confident about
your skills and abilities, then why should an employer have faith in
you? So, don't be **modest**. This is your opportunity to really show
your skills and experience and what a great performer you're gonna be in
the job._

**Neil**: The career coach says your've got to be confident! It means
self-assured, believe in your capacity to do things. And sometimes we
feel that it isn't nice to say "I'm very good at this" or "I'm wonderful
at that" but she advises you not to be modest.

**Rob**: Exactly. Modest means humble, moderate when talking about your
abilities.

**Neil**: You know, Rob, I've got some top tips for people writing their
CV.

**Rob**: OK, well, let's have them.

**Neil**: Yes. Here is the first one: you have to be concise - it means
brief, give the information in a few words. Maybe you could write a
brief profile at the top and keep the CV to just two pages.

**Rob**: Thank you. That's a good bit of advice. And I think you should
give evidence of success in previous jobs. If a presentation you did
helped you to get a client you should include it there. And be accurate,
in other words, be precise and tell the truth. Don't invent things.

**Neil**: And you should also remember to check your spelling and
grammar!

**Rob**: Yes, that's very important! Well, we wish everybody success
when writing and sending out their CV, and we hope they are called for
a job interview, in which they have a very short period of time to leave
a good impression...

**Neil**: Indeed! So how long after all is this period of time,
according to your survey? Did i get the answer to the question you asked
at the beginning of the programme right?

**Rob**: Well, I asked you: how long do you have on average to make a
good enough impression for an employer to hire you? Do you have less
than 3 minutes, less than 5 minutes or less than 10 minutes?

**Neil**: And I said less than 5 minutes.

**Rob**: And you're wrong. The correct answer is actually less than 10
minutes, so you'd have a little bit longer. Jobseekers have on average
just six minutes and 25 seconds during the first meeting to impress
potential employers. That's according to a new study from the webstie
monster.co.uk. And we're almost out of time. So let's remmeber some of
the words we said today, Neil.

**Neil**:

**CV (curriculum vitae)** - document in which you list your work history,
education, your intersts and abilites

**viral** - video posted online which becomes popular very quickly

**to stand out** - to appear more than others in the same group

**get your strengths across** - make your abilities clear to somebody

**confident** - self-assure, believe in your own capacity to do things

**modest** - humble

**concise** - brief, give the information in few words

**accurate** - precise

**Define**:

**viral** - *lan truyền qua mạng (video, audio, document,...)*

**to stand out** - *nổi trội, nổi bật*

**get your strengths across** *tạm dịch là show ra khả năng của mình*

**confident** - *tự tin*

**modest**, **humble** - *khiêm tốn*

**consice** - *ngắn gọn, súc tích*

**accurate**, **precise** - *đúng đắn, chính xác*

**evidence** - *hiển nhiên, rõ ràng, rõ rệt*

